An Empowered Autonomous Institute, Affiliated to SPPU, Pune
Accredited by NAAC “ A+ “ Grade & NBA
Department of Information Technology
ITSA
Magazine
Campus : Gat No. 1200 Domkhel Road, Wagholi, Pune - 412207, M.S. (INDIA) 2024-25
Email : ghrcem.pune@raisoni.net, admission@ghrcem.raisoni.net | Web : http://ghrcemp.raisoni.net
Term I (June – Dec)

Department of Information Technology
ITSA
Information Technology Students Association
AY 2024-25 (Jun–Dec)
Term I

Contents Department Vision & Mission
1) Department Vision & Mission 01
VISION
2) Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) 02
To achieve excellence in the field of Information Technology by
3) Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 02
developing Competent Engineers to cater the need of IT industry
4) Program Outcomes (POs) 02
and Society.
5) Campus Director Message 04
6) Head of Department Message 05 MISSION
7) Student Activity In charge Message 07
• M1 : Achieve excellence in teaching learning process by imparting
8) Department Toppers 2023-24 06
quality and value based education
9) ITSA Magazine 2024-25 Editorial Team 06
• M2 : Groom competent IT professionals by keeping pace with
changing technology to address needs of industry and society
10) Departmental Activities 08
• M3 : Promote research and innovation
11) Students Corner 25
12) Department Achievements 30
ITSA Magazine 1
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

7. Environment and sustain ability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal
Program Educational Outcomes (PEOs)
and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
PEO1 : To prepare the graduates to apply engineering knowledge to design and develop feasible solutions to 8. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the
complex problems engineering practice.
PEO2 : To prepare the graduates to engage in research and innovation to solve societal and Industrial problems 9. Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams,
and in multi disciplinary settings.
PEO3 : To prepare the graduates to exhibit ethics and professionalism to work effectively in multi disciplinary
team. 10. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community
and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design
documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) 11. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and
management principles and apply these to one's own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage
PSO1 : Graduate will possess knowledge of IT Fundaments, Web Technology, Database Management Systems, projects and in multi disciplinary environments.
and Software Engineering to develop innovative applications
12. Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and
PSO2 : Graduate will have an ability to develop multidisciplinary applications to cater societal needs by using life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Modern IT tools & Technologies
Program Outcomes (POs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to:
1. Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an
engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
2. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems
reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering
sciences.
3. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system
components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health
and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
4. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods
including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide
valid conclusions.
5. Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and
IT tools including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the
limitations.
6. The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health,
safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering
practice.
2 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 3
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Director's Message Head of Department Message
Dr. R. D. Kharadkar Dr. Poonam Gupta
Campus Director GHRCEM, Pune. HOD - IT
Due to rapid social and technological changes, there is need for quality engineers who can think creatively The Information Technology Department of G.H. Raisoni College of Engineering and Management
and apply their intelligence to solve engineering problems while designing products for the ever changing was started in the year 2007. The goal of the Department is to prepare students for successful careers
world. GHRCEM was established in year 2006 and achieved a major landmark of conferment of in software and hardware industry that meets the needs of Indian and multinational companies or to
Academic Autonomy by University Grants Commission and Savitribai Phule Pune University in year 2016. excel in higher studies. The Department has experienced and dedicated faculty members with strong
commitment to the engineering education and professional ethics.
GHRCEM works diligently to achieve excellent standards of quality education by keeping pace with rapidly
Information Technology is the field which deals with analyzing and designing hardware, software, and
changing technologies and create technical manpower of global standards with capabilities of accepting
operating systems for a computer system. Our students are trained in software design and
new challenges. Our efforts are dedicated to impart quality and value based education to raise the
implementation. The Department has well equipped laboratories with a good number of personal
satisfaction level of all stake holders. In view of this, the Institute has imparted various programs under
computers, servers etc. The Department also has a library.
autonomy like Honors / Minor Streams, General Proficiency Courses, Professional Development Courses,
Various workshops, seminars, guest lectures and training programs based on current technologies are
Skill Development Courses, Open Electives considering the overall development of students and Soft
organized under various professional bodies such as IEEE CS, ISTE and CSI for the development of
skills as a part of the Curriculum. The concept of choice based credit system allows learners to choose
faculty and students. Industrial visits are arranged to expose the students to real world applications.
according to their own learning needs, interests and aptitudes.
The research work is carried out by the faculty along with students in the areas like Wireless Sensor
To groom the students from industry perspective, the Institute has established academic collaboration
Network, Image Processing and Data Mining. Students are also encouraged and guided for
with all leading industries to encourage the summer internships and semester internship in industry as a
participating in various technical events organized by industries and reputed institutes. As a result of
part of curriculum. The Institute is committed to provide continuous support and encouragement for the
sincere efforts of faculty & state of art facilities provided by the Department, our students are
students having innovative ideas for initiating start-ups. The research achievements of our faculty provide
excelling in IT as well as other related industries.
enriched experience to our students at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. The center of
excellence created in various domains gives an extraordinary opportunity to our graduate students for
nurturing the research apatite.
We provide an environment for our students to learn to focus on their own goals and in the process to
value others. We nurture our students with love and affection in order to bring the best out of them and
succeed in life. I would appeal you to take the maximum benefit of the opportunistic environment and join
us in our endeavor to actively contribute to the overall improvement of this increasingly globalized
society.
4 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 5
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Student Activity Coordinator Message Department Toppers
Toppers 2023-24
Sr. No. Year Name of Student Rank CGPA
1 Second Year Sanika Dilip Tambare I 9.805
2 Second Year Harshal Ashok Nagre II 9.78
3 Third Year Prathamesh Dnyandeo Khande I 9.72
4 Third Year Shinde Shivram Maroti II 9.63
5 Final Year Rohit Mahadev Sangole I 10
6 Final Year Tanmay Radhakrishna Aswale II 9.935
Ms. Poonam Dhamal
Activity Coordinator, IT Department
ITSA Magazine 2024-25
It is with great pleasure to introduce the current issue of IT Spectrum, the Information
Publication Team
Technology Department magazine, for the academic year 2024-25. This publication
serves as a platform to showcase the academic, research, and innovative pursuits of our
students and faculty. Sr No Name of the Committee Member Role
The field of Information Technology is at the forefront of technological advancement, 1 Dr. Poonam Gupta HOD IT
demanding creativity, problem-solving, and adaptability. Our department is committed
2 Ms. Poonam Dhamal Student Activity Incharge Staff
to fostering a learning environment that empowers students to develop these skills and
3 Shivraj Halgode( B. Tech) President, ITSA
contribute to the ever-evolving digital landscape.
IT Spectrum highlights the department's achievements, including research projects, 4 Vedant Maruti Pathak(TY) Vice-President, ITSA
academic accomplishments, industry collaborations, and student initiatives. It is a
5 Anugrah Vishal Shinde (SY) Secretary, ITSA
testament to the dedication and talent within our community.
6 Harsh Rajkumar Sarda (TY) Treasurer, ITSA
I extend my sincere gratitude to the editorial team and contributors for their hard work
7 Shreyans Sandeep Magdum(TY) Event Coordinator, ITSA
in creating this informative and inspiring publication. I hope this magazine serves as a
valuable resource for students, faculty, and industry professionals alike. 8 Purab Jitendra Roy(SY) Publicity Incharge, ITSA
9 Adarsh kumar Chaurasia(SY) Web Master, ITSA
6 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 7
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Departmental Activities
Event 2: Growing Green: Community Plants for a Brighter Future!
Event 1 : Skill Development Program on data Analytics The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni
College of Engineering and Management, Pune organized
The Department of Information Technology at G H Raisoni College of Engineering
a tree plantation drive at Green Sunrise Hills, Wagholi, on
successfully organized a comprehensive Skill Development Program on Data Analytics to
6th July 2024. Jamun saplings were planted to promote
enhance the technical and professional abilities of students. Conducted by internal faculty
sustainability, improve air quality, and support biodiversity.
members-Dr. Vijaya Choudhary, Mrs. Kiran Gore, Dr. Abdul Waheed Shaikh, and Ms. Kiran
Students enthusiastically took part in planting, while
Patil-from 18th to 20th June 2024, and further enriched by sessions with industry expert
faculty coordinators Ms. Yugashree Bhadane, Mrs. Archana
Ms. Swati Joshi, Assistant Vice President - Analytics and Metrics, Deutsche Bank, Pune, on
Dongardive, Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar, and Mr. Amol
5th and 6th July 2024, the program offered a blend of academic and industry perspectives.
Chincholkar guided the activity. The drive was planned by
The inauguration was led by Dr. Poonam Gupta, Head of the IT Department, along with all
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D.
faculty members, where she emphasized the
Kharadkar, Campus Director.
importance of continuous learning and keeping
pace with emerging technologies in today's
competitive IT landscape. With participation from
over 90 students, the program featured
interactive sessions and hands-on training on data
analytics techniques and tools, equipping students
with practical knowledge to bridge the gap
between academia and industry. By fostering
collaboration between experts, faculty, and
students, the initiative marked a significant step in Event 3 : Bridge to Careers: T&P Session on Accenture Recruitment
preparing learners to meet the evolving demands
of the IT sector.
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune has organized a Session on “Accenture Drive Replacement Talk” on
10/07/2024 for B. Tech students. Mr. Sachin Umare, Head of Training and Placement at
GHRCEM, conducted a session to enlighten B. Tech students about the significance of the
department's activities. The primary focus was on the Accenture recruitment process, which
was explained in detail. The Training and Placement department offers a comprehensive suite
of training programs designed to enhance students' technical proficiency and soft skills.
These programs, conducted by external experts, cover aptitude, logical reasoning,
quantitative reasoning, and verbal ability. Additionally, the department organizes mock
8 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 9
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

interviews, group discussions, and communication workshops facilitated by HR professionals Event 5: Mastering UML: Blueprint for Clear & Effective System Design
from various industries, specifically tailored for final-year students. Mr. Umare encouraged
The Department of Information Technology, G H
active student participation in Training and Placement initiatives. Approximately 70 B. Tech
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
students attended the session and benefited from the information provided. Mr. Dnyandeo
Pune organized a session on “Mastering UML:
Khemnar has coordinated the session and proposed vote of thanks. The session was planned
Blueprint for Clear & Effective System Design” on
and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta- HOD IT with all support & guidance of Dr. R. D.
8th August 2024 under ISTE and ITSA. The session
Kharadkar, Campus Director.
aimed to provide students with both basic and
advanced knowledge of UML, a standardized
Event 4 : IBM Training: Empowering the Next Gen
modeling language widely used in software
The Department of Information Technology at G H Raisoni College of Engineering and engineering. Participants explored structural
Management, Pune, organized a three-day IBM training program from August 5th to 7th, diagrams (class, object, component, deployment,
2024, under IETE (Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers) and ISTE package) and behavioral diagrams (use case,
(Indian Society for Technical Education). The program aimed to equip students with essential sequence, collaboration, statechart, activity),
knowledge and practical skills in cloud computing, data analytics, and artificial intelligence. gaining insights into system design and
Beginning with an introduction to cloud models, services, and architectures, the training functionality. The session also introduced popular
progressed to data analytics, where students UML tools like StarUML, ArgoUML, and Visual
learned to derive insights using modern tools and Paradigm. A total of 80 third-year students benefited from the session, delivered by Ms.
techniques, and further explored AI concepts such Savita Mane, Assistant Professor, IT Dept. Faculty coordinator was Ms. Yugashree Bhadane,
as machine learning, deep learning, and their and the program was planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of
industry applications. Hands-on sessions using IBM Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Cloud platforms reinforced these concepts Event 6: Ignite Your GRE Ambition
through real-world scenarios, including data
The Department of Information Technology, G H
visualization, predictive modeling, and natural
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
language processing. A total of 60 second-year
Pune, in collaboration with the GFG Student
students benefited from the program, coordinated
Chapter and CSI, organized a GRE Mock Test on
by Ms. Samrudhi Bhadane, under the leadership of
9th August 2024. Sponsored by Mr. Aditya
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD IT, with guidance from
Chaudhari, Atencion Media, the test replicated the
Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
actual GRE format, helping students assess their
preparedness and identify areas for improvement.
Around 200 students from various disciplines
participated, gaining valuable insights into time
management, test-taking strategies, and
preparation techniques. The event highlighted the
importance of vocabulary, quantitative reasoning,
and analytical writing for success. Ms. Yugashree
Bhadane was the faculty coordinator, while the
session was planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT,
with the guidance of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus
Director.
10 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine11
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Event 9: Higher Studies in USA: Guidance to Receive
Event 7 : Expert session on Pathway to GRE/GMAT Excellence
100% Scholarship
The Department of Information Technology, G H
The Department of Information Technology, G H
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
Pune organized a session on “Pathway to
Pune organized a session on “Higher Studies in
GRE/GMAT Excellence” on 9th August 2024 under
USA: Guidance to Receive 100% Scholarship” on
the professional chapters of ISTE and IETE. The
21st August 2024 under the professional chapter of
session was delivered by Mr. Nitin Lathe, Senior
CSI. The session was conducted by Mr. Subhash
Faculty at IMFS, who guided students on
Pol, Business Development Manager at Edwise
standardized tests such as GRE, GMAT, SAT,
International, and witnessed enthusiastic
TOEFL, and IELTS. He shared effective strategies
participation from 87 students. Mr. Pol guided
on study planning, time management, and building
students on standardized tests like GRE, GMAT,
a strong academic profile for study abroad
SAT, TOEFL, and IELTS, while also emphasizing
opportunities. The workshop emphasized
strategies for effective study planning, time
personalized preparation approaches and inspired
management, and building a strong academic
students with practical insights to strengthen their
profile. The session provided valuable insights into
applications. A total of 170 students from various
crafting competitive applications and creating
streams benefited from the session. Ms. Yugashree
personalized study plans, boosting students'
Bhadane coordinated the event, which was
confidence to pursue higher education abroad.
planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the
The event was coordinated by Ms. Yugashree Bhadane and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta,
support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Event 8:Dashboard-Making Competition
Event 10: Workshop on Dive into GitHub
The Department of Information Technology, G H
The Department of Information Technology, G H
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
Pune, organized a Dashboard-Making Competition
Pune organized a workshop on “Dive into GitHub:
on 13th August 2024 under ISTE. A total of 71
A Practical Workshop” on 23rd August 2024 under
students from various departments participated,
ISTE. Conducted by Mr. Govind Hivrale, DevOps
showcasing their skills in data visualization and
Engineer at BMC Software and alumnus (2020-21),
analytics. The competition focused on three
the session witnessed the participation of 131
categories—Best Overall Dashboard Design, Most
students. The workshop covered GitHub
Innovative Dashboard, and Best Interactive
basics—repositories, branches, commits, pull
Features—encouraging creativity and analytical
requests—and essential Git commands. Through
thinking. Dr. Vijaya Chaudhary evaluated the
hands-on exercises, students created repositories,
entries, and winners were felicitated with books,
collaborated on projects, and explored the
symbolizing continuous learning. The awards went
benefits of version control and open-source
to Sampada Payas (MCA), Tejas Borle (CS-AIML),
contribution. The event was coordinated by Ms.
and Yash Kute (SY IT-C). The event was
Yugashree Bhadane and organized by Dr. Poonam
coordinated by Ms. Yugashree Bhadane and
Gupta, HoD IT, with guidance from Dr. R. D.
planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the
Kharadkar, Campus Director.
support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
12 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine13
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Event 11 : Expert Lecture on Achieving Educational Excellence
Through OBE: Understanding Course and Program Outcomes
Event 13 : Industry Visit to Radiant IT Services Pvt. Ltd., Pune
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized an Industry Visit to Radiant IT Services Pvt. Ltd., Pune on
The Department of Information Technology at G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
30th August 2024 for second-year students. A total of 44 students explored domains like
Management, Pune, successfully organized an expert lecture on “Achieving Educational
web and full-stack development, gaining valuable industry exposure. To strengthen
Excellence Through OBE: Understanding Course and Program Outcomes” on 29th August
academia–industry collaboration, an MoU was signed to conduct expert sessions,
2024 under the professional chapter of IETE. The session was delivered by Dr. Anil Sahu,
workshops, and internships. The visit proved highly beneficial in aligning students' skills
Dean of PhD at GHRCEM, Pune, who conducted an insightful discussion on Outcome-
with industry expectations. The event was coordinated by Ms. Yugashree Bhadane and
Based Education (OBE) for 58 aspiring students. He explained that OBE is a learner-centric
organized under the guidance of Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD IT, with support from
approach that emphasizes defining clear learning outcomes and aligning teaching,
Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
assessment, and curriculum to achieve them, thereby ensuring that students acquire
essential knowledge, skills, and competencies for future success. Dr. Sahu elaborated on the
significance of Course Outcomes, which specify what students should achieve at the end of
a course, and Program Outcomes, which define broader abilities expected upon program
completion, both of which align with the institution's mission and vision. By highlighting the
shift from teaching to learning, he emphasized how OBE enhances instructional design,
assessment, and career readiness while contributing to societal growth. The session,
coordinated by Ms. Yugashree Bhadane and organized under the guidance of Dr. Poonam
Gupta, HOD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director, was highly
impactful and well-received.
Event 14: Parents Teacher Meet
Event 12: Expert Guidance Session on Smart India Hackathon
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune has organized “Parents Teacher Meet” on 31/08/2024 and 34 parents
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
participated in the event. Ms.Juhi Agarwal warmly welcomed the parents. Mr.Vijaykumar
Management, Pune organized an Expert Guidance Session on “Smart India Hackathon
Patil, parent representative shared his valuable insights about IT department and college.
2024” under ISTE on 30th August 2024. The session was conducted by Dr. Swapnil Mahajan,
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD-IT welcomed all parents and explained Mission, Vision and PEO,
Head of Innovation & Incubation, and Ms. Samruddhi Dhamdhere, SIH 2022 finalist and
PO's, placement and students activity of the department. Ms.Surbhi Pranav, Student
alumnus, who shared insights on innovation, teamwork, and project development. A total of
Counselor shared her valuable thoughts on student well-being and growth. Mr.Sachin
124 students from various departments benefited from their guidance. The session was
Umare, Head of Training & Placement, guided parents on the college's T &P initiatives and
coordinated by Ms. Poonam Dhamal and organized under the guidance of Dr. Poonam
opportunities. The information regarding attendance, class test mark as well as defaulter
Gupta, HOD IT, with support from Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
and detention criteria was given by respective Class teacher to Parents. Parents also asked
about the academic development of student as well as the placement criteria. Parents
14 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 15
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

appreciated the efforts taken by the entire team IT in development of students technically accuracy, from which 15 students advanced. Blind Coding Round: The final and most
and socially. Mrs. Sheetal Aher has coordinated the Parent Teacher Meet. This activity is challenging stage, where participants coded without a compiler or display, testing syntax
planned and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta-HOD IT with all support & guidance of Dr. R. D. knowledge, logic, and precision. The event not only enhanced problem-solving abilities but
Kharadkar, Campus Director. also showcased students' coding talent under pressure. The Blind Coding Contest
successfully bridged theory with practical application, encouraging innovation, focus, and
Event 15 : A Day of Gratitude: Teacher's Day Celebration
accuracy in competitive programming.
Event 17: Monogram Designing Competition cum Exhibition
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune, organized Teacher's Day on 5th September 2024 under ITSA. The
celebration began with a ribbon-cutting and a welcome speech by students, expressing The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
gratitude to teachers for their guidance and support. Teachers were honored with tokens of Management, Pune organized a Monogram Designing Competition cum Exhibition on 27th
appreciation, followed by student speeches, a cake-cutting ceremony, and fun activities. September 2024 under IEEE and GeeksforGeeks Student Chapter. A total of 43 students
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, highlighted the vital role of teachers, while Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, showcased their creativity through innovative designs reflecting the department's identity.
Campus Director, extended support and guidance. The event concluded with a vote of The event was judged by alumnus Mr. Omkar Raut, and 9 best designs (8 for labs and 1 for the
thanks, leaving behind a memorable and heartfelt celebration. Faculty coordinator: Ms. department) will be copyrighted to recognize and protect students' intellectual property. The
Yugashree Bhadane. event was coordinated by Ms. Yugashree Bhadane and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD
IT, with guidance from Dr. R.D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Event 16 : Blind Coding Contest: Mastering the
Art of Code Without Seeing Event 18: Eureka Idea Pitching Competition
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and The Department of Information Technology at G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune, in association with the GeeksforGeeks Student Chapter, organized a Management, Pune, successfully organized the Eureka Idea Pitching Competition on
“Blind Coding” competition on 26th September 2024, which witnessed enthusiastic September 27, 2024, under the E-Cell, with 51 students from various departments actively
participation from 230 students. The contest was conducted in three progressive rounds: participating. The event provided a dynamic platform to foster innovation and a data-driven
MCQ Round: 30 questions on algorithms, data structures, and complexities, filtering the top culture within the institution, highlighting the importance of effectively communicating ideas
60 students. Average Coding Round: 3 timed coding problems to test efficiency and to transform concepts into impactful realities. Participants were evaluated on key elements of
16 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 17
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

effective pitching, including clarity of communication, strong value proposition, passion, use Event 20 : AMCAT Conquered- Strategies for High Scores
of visual aids, and preparedness through practice. Serving as the evaluator, Mr. Omkar Raut,
Associate Software Engineer at Tech Mahindra, offered valuable insights and feedback, while
the competition motivated students to refine their ideas and set benchmarks for future
innovation. The session was coordinated by Ms. Poonam Dhamal and meticulously planned
by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD IT, with the support and guidance of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus
Director, making the event a significant step in nurturing entrepreneurial and creative
thinking among students.
The Department of Information Technology, GHRCEM Pune, organized an “AMCAT
Preparations” test on 01/10/2024 for B.Tech students. The Training and Placement Cell also
conducted a session highlighting career opportunities after AMCAT. A total of 310 students
participated, gaining insights into effective exam strategies and preparation methods. The
event was coordinated by Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar, with support from Dr. Poonam Gupta
(HOD IT) and guidance from Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Event 19: DSY Induction Program Event 21: Guest Lecture on GenAi – Hype or Reality
The Department of Information Technology,
G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized a “DSY
Induction Program” on 28th September
2024 for DSY students. The program aimed
to familiarize students with the department's
vision, mission, curriculum, research
initiatives, facilities, and student activities.
The Department of Information Technology, GHRCEM Pune, organized a guest lecture on
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HOD IT, addressed the
“GenAI – Hype or Reality” under ITSA on 05/10/2024 for B.Tech students. Mr. Mihir Nanal,
students and guided them about academic
Managing Director at Accenture, introduced students to the potential and challenges of
opportunities and career paths. A total of 26
Generative AI. The session explored GenAI's capabilities, real-world impact, and the
students participated in the session, which
importance of ethical and responsible development. A total of 60 TY students attended. The
was coordinated by Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar.
session was coordinated by Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta
The program was planned by Dr. Poonam
(HOD IT) with support from Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Gupta with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar,
Campus Director.
18 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 19
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Event 22: Online expert lecture on Bootstrap and Django.
The Department of Information Technology, GHRCEM Pune, organized an expert lecture on
DSA and OOP on 5th October 2024 under the banner of CSI. The session focused on core
The Department of Information Technology, G H
OOP principles and key data structures, helping students enhance problem-solving and
Raisoni College of Engineering and Management,
coding skills. Career guidance and academic tips were also shared. A total of 40 SY students
Pune organized a guest lecture on “GenAI – Hype or
participated. The session was coordinated by Ms. Prachi Patil and organized by Dr. Poonam
Reality” under ITSA on 5th October 2024 for B.Tech
Gupta (HOD IT) with support from Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
students. The session was conducted by Mr. Mihir
Event 24: Workshop on Build Your Own AI Avatar
Nanal, Managing Director at Accenture. He provided
an insightful introduction to Generative AI (GenAI),
highlighting its rapid rise and real-world applications.
Mr. Nanal discussed how GenAI is transforming
industries through its ability to generate images, write
code, and simulate human-like conversations. He also
emphasized the importance of understanding both
the potential and limitations of this emerging
technology. Key concerns such as data bias,
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
misinformation, and ethical implications were
Management, Pune, organized a Workshop on “Build Your Own AI Avatar” on October 8,
addressed. The session encouraged students to think
2024, under IEEE in association with NxtWave Pvt. Ltd. The workshop introduced 65 students
critically about the future of AI and the need for
from various departments to AI concepts and avatar creation, offering hands-on experience
responsible innovation. A total of 60 third-year B.Tech
in designing and coding simple AI avatars. Participants worked in pairs, explored software
students attended and benefited from the
tools, and developed creative AI-based solutions. Mr. Abhinav Devaguptapu, Curriculum
discussion. The session was coordinated by Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar, who also proposed the
Development Manager at NxtWave, served as the resource person. The session was
vote of thanks. It was planned and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta (HOD IT), with the coordinated by Mr. Sahebrao Bhalshankar, and planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with
support and guidance of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director. the guidance of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Event 25: Expert Session on Career Opportunities after
Event 23 : Expert Lecture on Boost Your Career Prospects:
B Tech and Other Competitive Exams
Master OOP and DSA
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized a session on “Career Opportunities after B. Tech and Other
Competitive Examinations” on 9th October 2024 under ITSA. Mr. Kaushik Agastyaraj, Faculty
at ACE, guided students on diverse career paths after B.Tech, including software
development, core engineering roles, higher studies, and competitive exams like GATE, IES,
and PSU. The session encouraged students to align their aspirations with suitable
opportunities and plan strategically for a fulfilling career. A total of 70 B.Tech students
participated. The session was coordinated by Mr. Dnyandeo Khemnar and planned by
Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
20 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine21
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Dhamal and planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar,
Campus Director.
Event 26 : Significance of Community Detection Algorithms in
Real World Applications
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized an Expert Lecture on “Significance of Community Detection Event 28: Code Conquer: A Key for Placements
Algorithms in Real-World Applications” on 15th October 2024 under ISTE. The session was
delivered online by Dr. Sumit Kumar Gupta, Assistant Professor, IIIT Pune. The lecture
introduced students to the fundamentals of community detection algorithms, their
types—such as modularity-based, hierarchical, and statistical methods—and explored
applications in social networks, biology, and cybersecurity. A total of 143 SY and TY students
attended, gaining valuable insights into analyzing complex networks. The session was
planned and organized by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar,
Campus Director.
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized an interactive alumni session “Code Conquer: A Key for
Placements” on 15th July 2024. Mr. Pavan Patel, Software Development Engineer at Jade
Global and proud alumnus, guided SY students on preparing for careers in the IT industry. He
highlighted the differences between service-based and product-based companies, the
importance of data structures, and useful resources such as LeetCode, HackerRank,
Codeforces, AtCoder, CodeChef, Striver's A2Z DSA, takeUforward, and GSoC. He also shared
insights into game development as a career path. The session was coordinated by Ms.
Yugashree Bhadane and planned by Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the support of Dr. R. D.
Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Event 27: Educational tour to COEP's Bhau Institute of
Event 29: Expert Session on Copyright, Patent, Project
Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Leadership
Sponsorship & Writing Research Articles
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized an educational tour under ITSA to the Bhau Institute of
Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Leadership, COEP. A total of 27 students participated,
gaining exposure to innovation processes, entrepreneurship opportunities, and leadership
development activities. The visit provided hands-on insights into incubation facilities,
networking platforms, and real-world applications of classroom knowledge, motivating
students to explore entrepreneurial pathways. The tour was coordinated by Ms. Poonam
22 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 23
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Student Corner
The Department of Information Technology, G H Raisoni College of Engineering and
Management, Pune organized an Expert Session on “Copyright, Patent, Project Sponsorship
Drawings by students
& Writing Research Articles” on 18th July 2024. Prof. Yugashree Bhadane, Assistant
Professor, welcomed and introduced the experts Dr. Poonam Gupta (HoD IT) and Dr. Shaikh
Abdul Waheed. The session covered key aspects of B.Tech projects, including compulsory
tasks, copyright, patents, sponsorship, research article and report writing, as well as
plagiarism checks using tools like Turnitin. Students were also encouraged to participate in
hackathons, pursue industry sponsorships, and publish research in reputed journals (UGC
Care, IEEE, Springer). Around 15+ project groups benefited from the event, which aimed to
enhance project quality and academic integrity. The session was coordinated by Dr. Shaikh
Abdul Waheed and planned under the guidance of Dr. Poonam Gupta, HoD IT, with the
support of Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
“PRATIMA: SCLUPTURES OF TECHNOLOGY Model Exhibition”
Event 30: Ideathon 2024 Organized by ICT Academy under
Collaboration of Capgemini and Barclays Bank
Drawing by Shubhankar Patil Drawing by Mukundraj Bhosale
The Department of Information Technology, GHRCEM, Pune participated in Ideathon 2024,
organized by ICT Academy in collaboration with Capgemini and Barclays Bank, focusing on
themes like Diversity & Inclusion, Sustainable Jobs, Connectivity, and Responsible Growth.
An orientation session was conducted on 8th August 2024, after which 30+ IT teams
registered, and 4 teams were shortlisted among the top 20 to present their ideas at Barclays
Campus with assigned mentors. Students attended three master classes (6th Sept, 30th
Sept, and 4th Oct) on innovation, trends, and presentation skills, which prepared them for the
semi-final and final rounds. Competing among 106 registered teams, 10 teams from
GHRCEM reached the finals. The winning team “New Gen Innovators” secured 1st Prize of
`1,00,000, followed by “Concept Crew” (`75,000) and “Power Rangers 2.0” (`25,000).
Other innovative projects included Signage (Sign language translator), Solution Crafters
(jobs in rural areas), Passionate (Smart Irrigation), and Tridhara (Eco-friendly Hair Disposal).
The event was coordinated by Prof. Neelesh Sirdeshmukh under the guidance of Dr. Poonam
Gupta, HOD IT, and Dr. R. D. Kharadkar, Campus Director.
Drawing by Ashitosh Thorat Drawing by Harsh Patel
24 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine25
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024)-25

prophets of Lingayat religion, believed that birth of this saint caused the prosperity of the
city and the deity is capable of blessing the devotees.The picture depicts a serene view of
Siddheshwar Lake in Solapur, Maharashtra. The lake is calm and reflective, surrounded by lush
greenery and buildings in the distance. On the left side of the image, part of a building with a
pinkish hue is visible, adorned with trees and plants, adding to the picturesque setting. The
sky above is partly cloudy, with light blue and white hues, enhancing the tranquil ambiance.
The overall scene captures the peaceful and scenic beauty of the area around Siddheshwar
Temple, highlighting its natural and architectural charm.
Drawing by Shivam Shelake Drawing by Mansi Rakhonde
Photography by Yogesh Nirve Photography Manish Koli
Siddheshwar Temple, Solapur photography by Sahil Lokhande
Located amidst a lake further flanked by Bhuikot fort, Siddheshwar temple is sacred to Lord
Siddheshwar, who is considered as an incarnation of Lord Shiva and Lord Vishnu. The temple
is highly revered by the devotees as it is the place where Shri Siddheshwar attained Samadhi.
In the main temple complex, there is a beautiful sanctum, which features the idol of
Siddheshwar. Also in the main courtyard, there are 68 shiva lingams, which were installed by
Lord Siddheshwar. Amrit Linga and Lord Ganesha temples are special mentions. Silver-plated
Nandi, and the temple of Vithoba and Goddes Rukmini along with the various other gods are
a part of the temple. In the middle of the temple, there is a marble tomb of Siddheshwar. This
temple was built by a yogi, and a devotee of Shri Mallikarjuna of Srisailam, Shri
Siddharameshwar. He built this temple and made 68 Shiva lingams in the temple as per the
instructions of his guru. It is said that Shri Siddheshwar, who is also considered as the six Photography by Shivam Kalekar Photography by Mukundraj Bhosale
26 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 27
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024)-25

Department Achievements
Copyright Details
• 9 UG Project Groups Applied for Copyright
NPTEL Achievement
• 12 Copyrights are registered
28 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine29
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Students Achievements
Selected for Final round of SIH Hackthon 2024 National Institute of Technology
Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal
1st Winner in National Level 19th AISSMS Hackathon, Pune
Ideathon 2024 Organized by ICT Academy under Collaboration of Capgemini and
Barclays Bank
3rd Winner in National Level VCET Hackthon, Palghar.
1st Winner in National Level Tietoevry Hackathon at COEP, Pune
30ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine31
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Placement Details
FDP/ STTP Attended by Faculty
Offer Letter from IIT Bombay for Campus Ambassador Post
Inter-Zonal Swimming Competition
32 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 33
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Patent Granted and Published
Mrs. Priya Waghmare (Ujawe), Asst. Prof. has Patent granted & Published on
title “Artificial Intelligence Based Thermal Surveillance Ro bot”
34 ITSA Magazine ITSA Magazine 35
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25) Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

Faculty Achievements
36 ITSA Magazine
Term I (June – Dec 2024-25)

